hi you guys oh my gosh I'm lies I'm
pumped I've been never gone live on
YouTube and today we're doing a QA I
have some matcha with me it's pretty
good this is not my house as I'm sure
you guys know this is a hotel but Gary
and I have been
we had to move out of our ferment this
past week because the floors ruined from
a flood and they have to replace
everything so we're live ana was hell
for a week but I still wanted to do this
Q&A so if you're on chat if you're here
hi welcome feel free to ask any
questions throughout this I did kind of
create a list of questions from
Instagram just a bunch of things I'm
gonna go through and answer just pick a
bunch and hopefully you guys will get
something out of this and then I'll post
it on my channel leader but yeah let's
jump into it shall we who some of these
are aggressive we're gonna have to warm
up into this hey you guys hi Olivia hi
Stephanie
hi Epiphany this is awesome I'm so glad
you guys are on I'm I know it's the
middle of the day so if you guys are
being sneaky at work I approve okay so
let's jump into it um I'm just gonna
start from the bottom how do I track
macros as a vegetarian okay so there's
lots of vegans and vegetarians and the
smaller in its community which is great
tracking macros doesn't really change no
matter what your dietary restrictions
are you can still track the same way as
if you are you could eat anything so in
terms of what that looks like you're
probably going to have you know your
protein your carbohydrate and your fat
target values and you'll be either
weighing your food probably when you
first get started and then when you
become really good at it you can switch
to more eyeballing it or even use the
hand portion method which if you guys
want to know what that is basically if
you don't want to track this is great
for intuitive eaters you can use your
hand to measure portions typically your
palm is about 20 grams of protein or 3
to 4 ounces of meat so you can count
your palm tree protein you can count
your thumb for fats whether that's oils
or avocados or whatever you're adding to
your food for fats and then for cards
you can say like a cupped hand of carbs
and then vegetables about a fist so I
always add vegetables in because
technically they fit in the carb
category but if we don't really try to
eat vegetables we might not consume so
many other cards without even eating a
vegetable right and we want to get
vegetables in because they're high in
fiber they fill us up they have lots of
vitamins that are you know
micronutrients that are essential to
staying healthy and keep your metabolism
fast so I always track the vegetables as
well so that's a hack for you guys if
you don't want to count macros although
I know a lot of us in this community
want to learn more about macro counting
and that's what kind of majority of
questions I get are always about macros
so um that's just a hack
all of it says in Denmark it's 1801 I
don't know military time very well but I
guess that's late at night yeah but yeah
I love that this is also international
um let's see if I've been inconsistent
with working out should I start your
program over from scratch so if you
purchase fatigue power self-guided so
that's not with any coaching in it and
you've kind of fallen off the wagon I
always say you should do whatever
whatever is going to make you feel the
most motivated so if you're like I want
to pick up right where I left off and
like get back to it that's fine it's
progressive so increases in difficulty
over time if it's been a really long
time since you've worked out you might
want to start back at week number one so
you can build up your strength again but
just get back to it that's what matters
is when you fall off the wagon and
anything it's really not it is really
about
finding that consistency with you know
it doesn't have to be perfect it doesn't
be like some insane amount of working
out just find something that you enjoyed
that you can start to get some
regularity back in how do you know when
your metabolism has begun to speed up I
got this question a lot so I talked a
lot about speeding up your metabolism as
fatigue this is a great question because
it's like how do you know when it's
happened right so in terms of speeding
up your metabolism it's slow it happens
over time it happens one by building
muscle naturally so when you add lean
body mass to your body which is muscle
by lifting weights it'll naturally
increase over time it can take you know
anywhere from a couple of weeks to six
months honestly to build a lot of lean
body mass takes a lot of time you know
body recomposition this can happen over
the course of three months two years I'm
still you know always working on a
growing lean body mass so always
prioritizing my metabolism and it's not
the type of thing that you kind of do
and then once you've achieved it you're
done right it's a lifestyle it's a
lifestyle you have to live and you have
to lean into and embrace and love which
is also why I emphasize that she'll
really be something you couldn't keep up
with like it should be something
sustainable that you enjoy doing and not
something you dread because you're you
want it to be a lifestyle so that you
can keep the benefits and feel good
forever not just for some you know
30-day period of time where you're gonna
revert back to your old ways before so
how do you know when the metabolism has
sped up successfully you'll be eating
more calories without gaining weight
that's basically what's gonna happen if
you're tracking it you're gonna see that
over time you'll be able to eat a lot
more higher macros without gaining
weight that's simply what it means is
that you increase your calories and you
you will have increase your metabolism
enough that your new maintenance
calories so that's that's the number in
which you don't gain or lose weight your
new maintenance will be higher than it
used to be so for example a sedentary
petite woman who does not work out
regularly or I should say doesn't lift
weights she's going to naturally have a
slower metabolism and she might be at
you know 1,300 calories a day which is
pretty low you guys have heard me talk
about this over
when she starts lifting weights and
prioritizing protein she can increase
your metabolism to be more like 1500 and
then she has more calories she can eat
in a decade without gaining weight so
it's like three calories nerdy Joy asked
do you suggest getting a scale on
nervous I'll be it'll be too obsessive
so the scale is like this is a great
question to me the scale is just a tool
however it's not that way to a lot of
people and that's okay don't put
pressure on yourself to use tools that
trigger you but just be aware that you
know that the scale triggers you and
that's something that should cue you to
be a little curious about it so you know
do start to maybe do a free writing a
journal about it start to kind of think
about why does this trigger me what have
my past experience has been with this um
you know why is it not a positive
experience for me obviously it's not
it's not meant to be like some amazing
joys experience but it is by its nature
and by design it's a neutral thing the
scale is just a number it has no meaning
inherently on its own right we are
attaching a meaning to it based on our
experiences or based on our own
narratives that were failures or we're
not good enough so I would suggest you
go in and dig deep into thinking about
what narratives will I have around my
body around the scale and then just
don't use the scale until you feel like
you've lifted from that narrative that
you're kind of rewriting it for
yourselves because there's lots of ways
to track progress besides a scale you
can use progress photos that's probably
my favorite because it actually shows
changes in body composition way more
accurately than the scale does progress
was like once every four weeks are
really effective and you don't have to
show them within one you can just keep
them for yourself and I know that they
can be hard to take it first but those
are probably the best things you can do
so yeah I hope that helps to answer your
question about the scale Stephanie said
I'm five foot what's a healthy weight
range and suggested calorie intake this
is just two individual to answer it
depends on so many things a healthy
weight range I mean you can check your
BMI but BMI is not always the most
accurate way to measure body composition
if you have a lot of muscle and you've
been lifting so I'm just I'm I'm gonna
have to say it's a really individual
thing speak with your doctor if they
think that you know you should be losing
weight of something you can work on or
if you should be gaining weight at
something you can work on but health
comes in a lot of different shapes and
sizes we is not always the top indicator
of health in any way no where is eyes I
just stick in your lane try to do what
feels good and start lifting some
weights but you don't learn about your
nutrition
speak with your doctor and you kind of
have to figure out what a healthy weight
is for you I know my range for me I'm
5-1 out of a day I'm probably more like
3/4 but don't tell anyone so much for me
it's like a hundred and 1718 is a really
nice weight for me I feel comfortable I
can eat a lot of food my metabolism is
faster now um when I get up into like
120 s 125 I start to not feel good like
I have digest digestion problems I'd get
more tummy aches I just feel more
sluggish but that's me that's my body
type and when I get a little bit lower
than 117 that's when I'm way leaner and
to get down I typically would have to do
more extreme things to get down lower so
for me like a happy place is 117 but
that is not the case for ever everyone
that's so variable so variable um yeah
nerdy joy you're so right you're so
welcome
you're so right you're so welcome no
problem oh you meant the food scale oh
you don't have to track you don't have
to track your food on a food scale you
can use your hands you can do intuitive
eating
um there's tracking macros is just one
method for learning about nutrition and
that when I teach macros I don't suggest
that you that you track for the rest of
your life that's definitely not what I
suggest but when you start tracking with
a really cool thing happens you start to
you start to see food and a
way first of all you learn about the
different food groups and how your body
reacts them and second of all you learn
like oh this is what how this is how
much protein this looks like and this is
how much sass I should have in this and
eventually after talking for a few weeks
you have trained your eyes to know what
you need more to feel good and function
well and then you can transition into
just intuitive eating and kind of using
your eyes so I really teach macros more
from an educational standpoint it's not
meant to be like you tracks the rest of
your lives because who would want to do
that unless I have like a really
specific goal which I do right now I'm
not trying to track all the time Maya
says hi I wanted to have your opinion on
carb tolerance I also feel so sluggish
after an oatmeal even mix the protein
powder so um card tolerance I mean
here's the thing about carbs we need
them they're really important and petite
women tend to under 8 then women in
general do we're very afraid of
carbohydrates but they're really
important we can however have two the
problem is when you eat carbs make it
I should I'll just say that when you eat
them naked so when you eat a carb like
oatmeal is really high in carbs plus
about some dietary fiber which is good
I'm and then you're adding in the
protein which is great when you eat it
alone though it can cause your blood
sugar to spike because carbohydrates are
sugar when broken down in the
bloodstream so when your blood sugar
levels spike then it signals this
hormone insulin which is a fat storing
hormone to come in and clear the blood
sugar out from your blood and put it
somewhere and our energy stores are not
that big so a lot of times it mean it
depends on a lot of things but you don't
end up just being stored as fat for
later um that's when we eat carbs alone
and we don't have you know fats and
protein patting it to slow down your
digestion and absorption of them when
you eat carbs with proteins and fats
this is what I called PSS eating protein
healthy fats and fibrous carbs when you
eat them together your blood sugar
levels
our steadier all the studies show you
don't have this huge peak you have a
nice steady flatline and that is how you
keep your body in fat burning mode so
that you're not increasing insulin which
is storing all of the sugar and the
other unwanted thing that comes from
this is after I'm sure you guys have had
like mid-afternoon crashes energy
crashes a lot of times if our lunch is
like just proportionately high-end cards
right the insulin comes in it takes all
the sugar out of your blood stream and
then it leaves you hungry again even
though you just ate and it makes you
feel like that's because you know
the sugars been put away stored and now
your body's left wanting to replete add
more sugar back so carbs the the
honestly like carb tolerance where do
you want to be with this is having cards
throughout your day especially around
your workouts that's when we can put
them to use the most they won't go
immediately into being stored they'll be
used as energy they're the most readily
available form of energy that we have
much more than fats and proteins those
take much more time to break down carbs
are quick to break down um
so being little
or shipment and every meal throughout
the deal throughout the day and you're
padding your protein and fats around
them you're gonna have a better time
digesting them and not feeling sluggish
afterwards which is a result of this
roller coaster blood sugar and insulin
spikes I hope that helps answer your
question Stephanie said I'm 123 pounds 5
foot 34 years old and I want to lose 15
pounds I'm comfortable at 105 to 112 I
think that's a great goal let me know if
you have any questions I think that's an
awesome goal I would definitely suggest
you lift weights and I help you a lot in
the long term but let me know if you
have any specific questions about that
and yeah you're welcome I am okay so
back to these questions unless you guys
have any let's see what kind of
questions here I thought this was a
really good question and also kind of
funny how do you switch your cravings
for carbs to protein so basically how do
you trick your brain into craving
protein rather than cost so this is
actually a really great question you
can't is the short answer and that's
because evolutionarily over the years so
just a little quick macros lesson for
you guys there's three main food groups
that we get energy from these are your
fats or carbohydrates in your protein
and in terms of these three to nine
calories per gram which means that fats
are more calorically dense nutrient the
same amount of fats and the same amount
of carbs the fats are gonna have more
calories so that is to say that in the
span of human like existence our brain
has been trained to crave more
nutrient-dense calorie dense foods such
as fats because in the scope of you know
we've only had a surplus of food and
proper civilization
for a very short period of time in the
span of human civilization human
existence
our brain has adapted to food scarcity
and so when our brain wants the most
calorically dense foods which is fat and
it's put us in a kind of a crisis
because we don't need this much energy
anymore now that we don't move a lot and
we have a surplus of food available to
us at all time so it is genetic and it's
in our DNA to crave fats and
carbohydrates more carbohydrates because
they're faster digesting than protein so
there's not a lot you can do there
however there is something you can do to
your pallet so I don't know if you guys
I don't know you guys can let me know
I'm drinking green tea Riley that's so
funny
I'm not drinking green tea right now um
matcha so I want to ask you guys if you
eat healthy now or if you don't however
you define that or I'll just say if you
ate out at fast food at any point in
your life for a lot and then you made
the switch to try to eat healthier at
first healthy food taste is like crap
right it just it wasn't palatable it
didn't taste good it was like hard to
make that switch or it might in my that
might be something you're struggling
with now let me know in the comments is
that to you there's a reason why healthy
food doesn't taste good when you've been
eating processed foods for a while and
that's because our palate adapts to the
foods that we expose it to so if you're
eating highly processed foods for a
while or just foods like you know the
fast food and even foods out restaurants
are they're just packed with sugar and
salt and Weill and things that our
palate is not used to having in high
quantities once we get used to it the
palatability of whole foods that are
plainer goes down so a lot of times the
mistake I see is we try to like
completely switch from really really
really unhealthy diets or just processed
diets to really healthy like we go from
like cheeseburgers every day till a
I'm gonna try to only eat kale for like
you know some kind of crazy cleanse or
some extreme just eliminating
eliminating all of the processed foods
your palate isn't like it's not trained
yet to do that and it would be very hard
to do so rather than do that just start
to train your palate to crave healthier
unprocessed foods it's foods and
introducing unprocessed foods over time
you know full sources of foods fruits
and vegetables Pro Tyre protein sources
over time you're gonna change the
palatability of food to you because it's
individual and you have to really train
or palate that's gonna help a lot in
terms of making the food more palatable
and that's also why you can't just go
like cold turkey and be healthy actually
have to train your your palate to start
to crave healthy foods and it takes some
time
I'm understanding your questions in the
chat if you guys are enjoying this give
it a like and maybe I'll do more of
these Karen said how do you feel about
collagen peptides
I love collagen peptides I have the torn
partially torn labrum in my hip and
collagen helps a lot with it helps a lot
with your your joints and I mean
Cauldron exists naturally in the body so
it's very helpful for you know skin
nails hair and then you're joined so I
like it just from like a joint
perspective because they do have that
joint issue and then it also is a
natural source protein so I love it
Mariah said I want to know what the best
way to lose leg fat is I've always been
insecure about my thighs excuse me and I
feel like no matter what I do it doesn't
change
I also let's waste but no change so the
thing is we can't spot reduce fat
unfortunately so if you want to Mariah
lose leg fat you can't lose it just in
your legs or it's going to be lost all
over and to take a step further genetic
we where we lose fat is first is also
sort of genetically to
Herman partially so for example when I
lose fat the first place I start to
personally notice in it is like upper
stomach area my face the last parts are
like my lower belly and my legs so it
can be genetic but you will need to
focus just on an overall fat loss plan
not just there's something you can do
specifically about your legs lifting
weights is great for building tone in
your legs and then I would focus on you
know building your metabolism if your
metabolism is high enough meaning you're
eating enough calories in a day you
might be able to safely enter a calorie
deficit which is it will help you burn
fat but I wouldn't want you to enter a
calorie deficit and be eating like 1,200
calories a day that's too low you want
to build your metabolism up a little bit
higher before you start to actually
decrease them because you won't be it
won't be healthy to be dieting like that
that's really what I try to emphasize
with my clients and how they can I show
them how they can achieve long-term
success if you're dieting at 1200
calories a day it's not sustainable it's
not healthy it's not going to you know
lead to the long-term changes you're
looking for because you can't maintain
that for the rest of your life and then
you also can you know
it's gonna affect everything hormones
your period hair growth like you just
can't deplete yourself for that long
that low so I know for petite women
we're already a little lower in calories
because we're smaller so focus on
building up your metabolism first and
then you can cut from there and see how
your body responds Rosa said in the
morning after you have a glass of water
can you drink a protein shake before
you're out absolutely you should have
some protein and carbs before and after
workout if you are looking a build
muscle for sure Riley said I agree and
then when you stop eating unhealthy you
start again it's more intense for me and
the sugar and salt now is more intense
before yeah see it's like a spectrum
like it depends on where you're at it's
very individual where your palate is are
there any foods that you recommend that
have collagen so
not food you will need a supplement for
that you need like vital proteins
collagen peptides that's what I use I
love it it's really really great you
can't get it from food really you have
to have a like a powder supplement or a
pill I have like something stuck in my
throat you guys I'm sorry that's really
gross um why I said I haven't started
tracking but I think I should I've
really been trying to follow your
program professor months that's awesome
I'm so proud of you that's so great I've
lost weight but I feel like my body
hasn't changed it's great that you've
lost weight if that was one of your
goals keep going you gotta you know have
a long-term mindset for this have
patience you might need to introduce
some new things like so maybe start
experimenting with food journaling and
macro counting and see how that goes for
you um yeah you're so welcome any tips
from vegans yeah Shay I just made a
video a few weeks ago it was some top
protein sources for vegans vegetarians
if you haven't seen that check it out I
think it will help you a lot it's just
as a vegan you're going to need to get
some quality protein sources in there
and help you beat build your muscle up
okay cool um we're gonna do like five
more minutes here and I'm going to try
to pick some funner questions we've done
a lot of like science e food ones
someone asked best warm-ups and
stretches I wanted to let you guys know
on my Instagram if you on my highlights
all my were like free workouts sort of
my body type body part
body part and then if you scroll to the
very end there's a it says stretches and
it's all dynamic warmup so you can use
these to warm up there's a bunch of
different ones to get some variety do
them before you workout and you can also
use them as a cool-down as well because
they're you want to do a dynamic warmup
before you get lifting so that you can
prime your body get your blood flow
going helps reduce injury so um check
out the stretches highlight it has a
bunch of warm-ups um at least I just
want to say I love this live hope to get
more of them oh yeah you're so welcome
I'm so glad that you guys are getting
something out of this okay so I also got
a lot of questions about strategies for
beating cravings food cravings stress
eating and binging now um I was never
diagnosed with binge eating disorder
however are looking back on my behavior
maybe five or more no like seven years
ago I would definitely self diagnose
myself as just a binging tendencies I
would eat really healthy all day healthy
I wasn't doing it right um you know it
was like having skipping breakfast
having like a salad for lunch thinking I
was doing really great and then I would
get to dinner maybe have a healthy
dinner and then just crash at night like
I was so hungry and craving so much I
would eat like everything I need like a
bag of old fish it was just anything I
could get my hands on and couldn't ever
progress because of that behavior um and
I couldn't figure out how to get it
under control what I learned through all
my certifications and working with
hundreds of petite women and working
with professionals is that you kind of
have to learn about nutrition and how
your how your body works to understand
what causes cravings so you can get to
the root cause and what I didn't know
then that I know now and I talked about
this a little bit earlier if you were
here on the live your cravings are
typically hormonal so I'm not talking
about like your period or anything
although that can affect it I'm talking
about your blood sugar and your insulin
so when you're eating
no food throughout the day which was in
my case the problem I was eating very
low calorie like I was trying to eat
like a thousand calories a day to lose
weight which as a petit is not a good
strategy um I didn't know that then so
if you're doing that my blood sugar
levels were so low like they were like
if this is the spectrum on blood sugar
so you don't want to be here zero or
here ten you want to always be in the
middle because that's when you're gonna
be your metabolism is gonna be revved
you're gonna be burning fat getting your
body to hang out in fat-burning mode
more than fat storing mode when it goes
too low or too high you get problems you
get hormonal problems imbalances in your
appetite hormones leptin and ghrelin and
you put yourself in a position in which
you're fighting against your own biology
to reach your goals and you will never
reach your goals fighting against your
biology you have to get in tune with it
it has to work for you especially for
petite women because we have that low
calorie threshold so when it comes to
cravings I didn't know this I was
causing them through my behaviors by
keeping my blood sugar levels so low
restricting carbs
I was actually screwing up my appetite
hormones and it caused my appetite to
completely increase so by the time you
get to the end of the day you cannot
help it like you are gonna eat
everything in sight so the best tip for
hack for stopping cravings is to start
eating less processed foods so whole
source of foods and then also that's a
good question really how do you keep
your blood sugar normal the way you do
is eating PFS this is protein healthy
fats and fibrous carbs every meal so
that means that when you eat a meal make
sure it's balanced it has those three
food groups you want to have protein at
every meal you want to have healthy fats
and you want to have carbs that are high
in fiber cards that aren't high in fiber
just kind of go through the system they
can really spike your blood sugar fiber
keeps you full and it's a type of
carbohydrate that's not metabolized so
it bolts up your poo it makes you
regular it keeps you full it keeps your
blood sugar levels stable and that's the
way to do it and here's a hack for you
guys if you want to eat dessert
you should still eat dessert
every day there's some brownies my
fridge are like little Hotel mini fridge
over there
but you want to attach it to the end of
a PFF meal to keep your blood sugar
levels sendee because what that's gonna
do is it's you're eating that high sugar
item in like embedded in that protein
and fat meal so it's going to slow down
the absorption of those sugars and your
blood sugar level as well as a results a
study and over time you're gonna get a
feel for you'll know when your blood
sugar levels are steady you probably be
eating you know meals that are filling
enough but don't really stuff you like
to the point where you feel sick you
want to be like somewhere in the middle
it's just like the middle road and
always eating balanced meals and always
prioritizing protein because you can
there's this thing called a thermic
effect of food it's really high for
protein so you burn more calories
digesting protein than any other food
group and it stays in your stomach it
also shuts down your appetite hormones
it's very satiating also fats so the
really the key is just to eat balanced
PFF meals that's going to keep your
blood sugar levels steady and it might
take a few weeks until your body adjusts
but it will definitely get there um on
to your questions and then we'll sign
off what else had skincare yeah um I
love skincare it's topic that I really
love if you have any questions
I mean basically what my skincare
routine is well you have really bad
hormonal acne um I don't know if you can
see I haven't covered up but there
whatever what used to be some
hyperpigmentation here and I beat it
when I learned that my skin was not dry
but dehydrated so it was like from the
inside it was dehydrated and that was
causing me to over produce oil so I had
like oily skin I don't anymore it's
pretty normal um what I did change that
was I started hydrating it using a
hyaluronic acid so this is like a deeply
hydrating serum I used vitamin C SPF 30
every day I use a facial oil that is
great and a moisturizer a water-based
moisturizer and that group
skin really well and it's just like part
of my daily routine now are you guys
this was really enjoyable thanks for
hopping on live I hope you enjoyed it
please give it a thumbs up if you got
something out of it and you just enjoyed
hanging out with me and I hope we can do
more of these got of these together and
I hope you guys have a amazing day and
I'll see you guys soon
Cheers